**Flyometrics**

This is a Senior Project by Brett Grossman and Tim Richer at Wentworth Institute of Technology. Flyometrics is an interdisciplinary project to automate the fly sorting process for the genetics class at Wentworth. The class uses fruit flies to do their genetic experiments. For those experiments they use two sets of flies a control group and a set of genetically modified flies. In order to run their experiments, the students must separate the flies into these two groups as well as separate them into groups of male and female within their groups. The current process for this is to place the flies under a microscope and separate them into these groups with a paintbrush. This is a time consuming process and leaves the students with little time to do much else within their two hour lab period. Flyometrics aims to speed up this process by creating a system where the students can load both types of flies they are using into a system that will sort them by eye color and gender. The portion of that we worked on was making the classifications of the flies. 

To set up a Raspberry Pi with Raspbiean already installed to be used to classify flies, first the git repository needs to be pulled, `git clone https://github.com/tricher00/Flyometrics.git`. Then run `install_dependencies.sh` located in the root of the folder created by cloning the repo to install Keras, TensorFlow and Pandas, which are Python packages that are needed to run the code. Once that finishes running you are now ready to classify flies. To do this run `Flyometrics.py` with the `-f` parameter with the location of the folder where the images will be stored. Once it's running, as images show up in the specified folder it will provide a classification for that image. Currently there is no integration with the overall system, so the classifications are printed to the screen and written to a csv.
